## Z1

### Security design patterns utilized in previous projects
- Arhitecture, Design and Threat modeling -> In web security course project we where given a security requirements. But for some we needed to reasurch on which part of our arhitecture they are applicable. So we thought about how to handle, move and store sensitive data, what kindes of attacks are most likely ...
- Authentication -> Users needed to register and login eather through username + password or through OAuth to our platform to be able to interact with it. We used Java Spring Boot as technology of choice. Paswords were hashed before storing in database. For hasing we used Java PasswordEncoder that uses salt and SHA256 algorithm with some optimizations. And beside login and registration any other action can be taken only by authenticated user. We required pasword swopping every 3 months with a completly new password, recording hashes of previous passwords used.
- Session management -> We use JWT token for "session" management. JWT TTL was valid for 6hours. With every request jwt was send for authentication and autorization. JWT valididity was chacked and requests with tempored tokens were rejected.
- Access Control -> We had role based access control for admins, regular users and CAs.
- Validation, Senitization and Encoding -> We implemented Validation on frontend and on backend to prevent possibility of risking data integration in our database. For encoding we aproached this point in terms of Confidentiality stand point. We implemented https communication between frontend and backend and data was encoded in transit.
- Stored criptography -> For most sensitive data that is not needed in original state we used hashing. SHA 256 with salt. At rest no other principle was used.
- Error Handling and Logging -> Every non GET request was logged in file in parsable format of key-value pairs so "neporecivost" was supported and at any point we could see who and when performed what opperation. All enticipated errors where handled on backend returning apropriate HTTP status and description to frontend.
- Data protection -> One aspect of our application was generating and storing user public and private keys. Direct access to static files on our server was disabled and cross-site scriptiong was not possible because we used react as frontend framework. Besides that if attacker gain access to our server he would be able to take all our user keys. We could invalidate all thoese keys, because all of them were issued by our key not stored on the server, but demage was done. 
- Comminication -> HTTPS client-server communication, http from server to db
- File Upload -> We checked uploaded file type and only accepted .crt files. On the backedn files were only parsed not executed or stored. Also users were able to download their own public and private keys and they were served through backedn by sending get request with JWT and id of certificate needed.
- API -> RESTful api 